# Imperfect Preventive Maintenance Optimization with Variable Age Reduction Factor and Independent Intervention Level

A maintenance policy aims to plan the cycle of maintenance actions necessary to maintain the reliability and proper functioning of a system. Some research aims to identify the number of maintenance actions within a planning horizon and the specific moments at which these maintenances should be performed. However, this work proposes an optimization approach to a maintenance policy that aims to increase the reliability and minimize the costs of preventive maintenance for a system. This is achieved by identifying the number of preventive maintenance activities within an observed time interval, the timing for each maintenance, and the identification of the respective severities assigned to maintenance actions. To achieve this goal, the employed methodology proposes the optimization of a function representing the failure intensity, in a first stage, and, in a second stage, the optimization of a function representing candidate solutions. For the optimizations, two methods were used: the first one was the Genetic Algorithm (GA), and the second was the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO). The approach includes experiments conducted in four test scenarios, considering variable systems and severities. A comparison between the Genetic Algorithm (GA) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is carried out to identify the best optimization approach.


link: https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/13/18/10210
